I love Back to the Future. While having a typical 80s feel to it, which I like, I love how fun, irresistible and original the film is. The special effects are dazzling and the comedy is suitably sly and sophisticated. Helping along the way is a script that is pretty ingenious, the sort of script that has quotable lines and also pokes fun at 1950s icons and lifestyles during the frequent bouts of time travelling. The score by Alan Silvestri elevates the sense of fun to a greater level, the main theme is one of the most memorable themes ever in the history of film, or so I think anyway. Robert Zemekis's direction is very good, and the cinematography, scenery and costumes are also excellent. And I have to mention the acting, Michael J Fox is really appealing in the role of Marty McFly, the role that propelled him to stardom, and Christopher Lloyd is brilliant in one of his most memorable roles(and yes this includes Judge Doom from Who Framed Roger Rabbit? and Professor Plum from Clue). Lea Thompson and Crispin Glover are also great. Overall, brilliant film that is good in so many ways. 10/10 Bethany Cox

Zemeckis's 'Back To The Future' trilogy has been a childhood favourite for a long time. Having revisited it today, brought me to a nostalgic state. The 80's saw a lot of excellent original fun 'young' films like 'Back To The Future' (of course), 'Better Off Dead', 'Heathers', 'The Breakfast Club' etc. What really made these films immensely enjoyable then, and classics today, is that they really reflected what it was like being a young person in the 80s. The movies themselves were well written, well executed, well acted and they cut straight to the point.

Back to 'Back To The Future'. This one is sheer fun, even today. There's an incredible energy about it but it still manages to stay an 'innocent' film. The music is very effective. It's slick and follows a steady pace. The special effects are decent. Though people might pick on the plausibility of the time travelling, I think this is really a very minor flaw because it is overall a well written movie and the point was to entertain. Yet, this is not to say that it's brainless entertainment. I think it cleverly brings forth some interesting themes and I liked how they funnily used some ideas of Oedipus Rex's story.

The acting is superb overall. Christopher Lloyd as the over-the-top mad scientist is a laugh riot. Michael J. Fox totally owns Marty McFly with his natural charisma, raw energy and brilliant dialogue delivery. Lea Thompson is cute and vivacious and Crispin Glover is good.

'Back To The Future' is one of the most enjoyable time-travelling classics. It's over 23 years old and it still hasn't gotten old. Sadly, they don't make it like this these days but then again we always can revisit them. That's why they're classics.

Back To The Future is such an inventive and exciting piece of filmmaking that it is impossible to forget about it. The casting of every character involved was absolutely perfect, and the performances were spectacular. I first saw this film when I was six years old, and it is the only movie that I know of that I don't think I could ever get sick of.

One of the best things about Back To The Future is that it really makes you think. You can have in-depth conversations about the plausibility of the story-line and spend hours discussing the film. The story is awesome, it is delivered cleverly and entertainingly, and the movie as a whole is just so much FUN that it can be forgiven whatever number of time-travel discrepancies that may be found in the plot.

I cannot recommend this movie enough. I have never found a movie other than this one that provides such a huge dose of great fun, and it has the desirable quality where you are able to see something new each time you see it. The only problem is that they stopped at part III.

One of the last movies I went with sister to see back in 86. The film blew my mind. My friends never wanted to see this one. I was happy I went. Many year's latter, I bought "Back to the Future" at Mc Donalds for $2.99 or for some other low price with a meal. The film ages well, and I love it just the same. The director and screen writer mixes science fiction, humor, and action perfectly. A big component of the script is time line theory which drives the story. Marty has many problems to fix, and finds out more than anyone wants to know about their parents. Michael J Fox and Christopher Loyd were excellently casted. Marty and Doc what a chemistry. With the film series one see the many dualities with time travel, that become a constant with the movie. The town clock, being awoke in a strange place, and letters. Keep this in mind when watching the 2 other sequels. The theory that time repeats itself is evident. What a time machine, the Delorian adds to this movie. Worth watch over again. 10 out of 10! Thank you TBS for showing all 3 films.

What can I say about this movie that was already said? It is my favorite time travel sci-fi, adventure epic comedy in the 80's and I love this movie to death! When I saw this movie I was thrown out by its theme. An excellent sci-fi, adventure epic, I LOVE the 80s. It's simple the greatest time travel movie ever happened in the history of world cinema. I love this movie to death, I love, LOVE, love it!

I firstly saw this movie in the early 90's as a kid on VHS tape and I was blow away by the action and the score and the title back to the future. This movie is one of the best masterpiece time travel epic adventure film. Michael J. Fox and Christopher Lloyd are fantastic at acting. Music theme score by Alan Silvestri is excellent I could listen to it whole day.

Back to the Future (1985)

From the Academy Award "- winning team of Steven Spielberg" and Robert Zemeckis** comes the hilariously groundbreaking adventure that thrilled critics and audiences alike - and sparked one of the most successful movie trilogy ever! Directed by Robert Zemeckis the movie begins with Marty McFly (Michael J. Fox) a teenager who has a really messed up family. His ultimate goal was to become a rock star which was heartened by his girl friend Jennifer Parker (Claudia Wells). But things went wrong when scientist Dr. Emmett Brown/Doc (Christopher Lloyd) wanted Marty's assistance for his new invention.

At that night Marty went to assist Doc's invention the Time traveling Car "DeLorean". Marty was told to record Doc's first time travel to the future. At that instant they were attacked by some Libyan terrorists who were cheated by Doc for Plutonium.

After killing Doc they turn towards to Marty and without any intention Marty enters the Time Traveling car. But it was previously set by Doc and when activated Marty gets transfer to 1955 from 1985.

What will he do next, will he can come back to the future, or will he stuck back in the past for his rest of the life. More than that will his time travel make serious effects on the future? Dealing with time travel and time paradox Steven Spielberg presents this amazing journey of Marty set up in the time of 80's and 50's. Scripted by Robert Zemeckis and Bob Gale for the story of Bob Gale himself, tells a science fiction adventure in a family oriented tone.

They really work hard to sculpt that sci-fi thread into a thrilling, culture clashed family movie. A good story with a great script. Also the soul of the movie was given by the legend Alan Silvestri. His composition was all memorable especially in the chasing and emotional scenes. Over the top the theme music, it was the most dazzling and recognizable themes in the movie history.

More than that the casting was simply brilliant, each and every actor is born to play their respected roles in this movie. Michael J. Fox was the only actor who can play the role of energetic Marty McFly, which was considered for numerous actors. Also Thomas F. Wilson was brilliant in his performance as the Bad boy Biff Tannen. Lea Thompson did a great work in portraying Lorraine Baines's two different life times, as a teenage girl and a matured mother. Well the extra talented Christopher Lloyd had almost "chewed every scenes" in the movie. Mr. Lloyd's versatile performance as the madman and genius scientist Dr. Emmett Brown is one of the great memorable roles in his carrier.

Last but not the least, it was Crispin Glover who steal the show as the nerdy teenager/father as George McFly. It was an interesting portrayal as a boy who was transformed to a man. Crispin Glover lived in that part. I don't know whether the movie would be a masterpiece without his unique performance. Above all I want to remember this as a romantic movie and it couldn't be made without the songs "The Power of Love," and "Earth Angel".

The rating I am giving is 10/10 the original and the best one of all time. I love this film, it is my favorite time travel movie of all time and I love it to death! All in all it is the greatest sci-fi, romantic movie of all time. It is the part of the great Movie History, which consider itself as " A Modern/Classic Masterpiece! "

